p8105_hw1_zv2138.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_zv2138
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.1 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.5     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.1.2     ✓ dplyr   1.0.7
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.3     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   2.0.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.1

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

Problem 1

``` r
problem_1_df = tibble(
  random_samp = rnorm(10),
  is_positive = random_samp > 0,
  cat_names = c('Susan', 'Helen', 'Sally', 'Matt', 'George', 'Paolo', 'Oliver',
               'Zoe', 'Paul', 'Laura'),
  cats_colors = factor(c("Black", "White", "Red", "Black", "Red", "Red",
                         "Black", "White", "White", "Black"))
)
```

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, random_samp))
```

    ## [1] 0.9869748

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, is_positive))
```

    ## [1] 0.9

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, cat_names))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(problem_1_df, cat_names)): argument is not numeric
    ## or logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, cats_colors))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(problem_1_df, cats_colors)): argument is not
    ## numeric or logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, is_positive))
```

    ##  [1] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0

``` r
as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, cat_names))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, cats_colors))
```

    ##  [1] 1 3 2 1 2 2 1 3 3 1

Commit message:

Problem 1 - explanation after taking mean of each variable in my data set

p8105_hw1_zv2138.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_zv2138
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.1 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.5     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.1.2     ✓ dplyr   1.0.7
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.3     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   2.0.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.1

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

Problem 1

``` r
problem_1_df = tibble(
  random_samp = rnorm(10),
  is_positive = random_samp > 0,
  cat_names = c('Susan', 'Helen', 'Sally', 'Matt', 'George', 'Paolo', 'Oliver',
               'Zoe', 'Paul', 'Laura'),
  cats_colors = factor(c("Black", "White", "Red", "Black", "Red", "Red",
                         "Black", "White", "White", "Black"))
)
```

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, random_samp))
```

    ## [1] -0.04956829

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, is_positive))
```

    ## [1] 0.7

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, cat_names))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(problem_1_df, cat_names)): argument is not numeric
    ## or logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(problem_1_df, cats_colors))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(problem_1_df, cats_colors)): argument is not
    ## numeric or logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

What works and what doesn’t?

I was able to take the mean of my random\_samp variable. This makes
sense to me because we are taking the mean value from a set of 10
numbers.

I was able to take the mean of my is\_positive variable. This produced a
numeric output. This doesn’t make sense to me because this variable is
of type logic and stores True and False values. It doesn’t make sense
that R thinks you can take the mean of True and False statements.

I was not able to take the mean of my character vector cat\_names. My
function returned NA. This makes sense to me because this vector holds
characters. You can not take the mean of a set of characters.

I was not able to take the mean of my factor vector. My function
returned NA. This makes sense to me because the input argument is not
numeric.
